.Dd March 14, 2011
.Dt FOLLOW-DELTA 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm follow-delta
.Nd list changes in twitter following
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hv
.Op Fl d Ar up|down
.Fl u Ar user
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
will generate a list of changes in twitter following compared to the last
time it was invoked.
The changes are printed to STDOUT.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width d_up_down_
.It Fl h
Print a short usage statement and exit.
.It Fl d Ar up|down
The direction in which to go.
.Ar up
indicates that we are looking at the changes of all people the given
account is following;
.Ar down
indicates that we are looking at the changes of all people following the
given account.
If not specified,
.Nm
will go both 'up' and 'down'.
.It Fl u Ar user
Operate on the given user account.
.It Fl v
Increase verbosity.
.El
.Sh DETAILS
.Nm
retrieves the list of people followed by the given users as well as the
list of users the given use is following him or herself (this set of
changes is henceforth referred to as the 'followship').
If
.Nm
has never queried the given user before, it will silently write the
followship to a file under ~/.twitter/followship/<user>; the next time it
is invoked, it will generate the desired delta and print it to STDOUT.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following examples illustrate common usage of this tool.
.Pp
To review the full delta of the user 'HowardStern':
.Bd -literal -offset indent
follow-delta -u HowardStern
.Ed
.Pp
To see who the user 'biz' is now following compared to the last time you
ran
.Nm :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
follow-delta -d up -u biz
.Ed
.Pp
To see the list of new followers of the user 'ev':
.Bd -literal -offset indent
follow-delta -d down -u ev
.Ed
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was originally written by
.An Jan Schaumann
.Aq jschauma@netmeister.org
in March 2011.
.Sh BUGS
.Nm
does (intentionally) not use any sort of authorization.
That makes it impossible for
.Nm
to determine followship deltas for 'private' accounts.
.Pp
Nm
is really only useful for accounts that are not too popular:
Due to API rate throttling,
.Nm
can only get at most 7500 followers and 7500 friends (150 API queries per
hour, 100 users returned per call).
Practically, it attempts to only get 7000 of each to leave some slack for
other API calls.
This is slow and does also mean that none of the examples in the
.Xr EXAMPLES
section are actually going to work.
For accounts that follow or are followed by fewer than a few thousand
users, though, this should work, even though this of course also means
that you can't run
.Nm
for multiple popular users in the same hour. :-/
.Pp
Please report bugs and feature requests to the author.
